Feat/multi org support (#668)
awslabs/aws-deployment-framework: docs/multi-organization-guide.md

enterprise (or any user) maintains more than one AWS Organizations and each with it's own
dedicated ADF installation. 

The following diagram shows such a setup in the most generic level:

![Multi Org Intro](images/aws-multi-org-1.png)

## Common Use Case for a Multi-Organization ADF Setup - A Multi-Stage Landing Zone
The most common use case for a multi-organization ADF setup is a multi-stage (and multi-organization) [landing zone](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prescriptive-guidance/latest/migration-aws-environment/understanding-landing-zones.html). Such a setup enables stable landing zone feature development that is otherwise not possible in a single AWS Organization.

Let's assume that "Enterprise A" has a dedicated "prod" AWS Organization. This "prod" AWS Organization is used by it's end users to run all their workloads. In a single AWS Organization setup, the "prod" AWS Organization is be the only AWS Organization that exists. As part of the  multi-organization ADF setup, we now add a separate "dev" and "int" AWS Organization. The following diagram shows such an architecture:
![Multi Org Intro](images/aws-multi-org-2.png)

The development flow is as follows: 

> 1. Development work for any landing zone feature always starts in the "dev" AWS Organization. The ADF repository `aws-deployment-framework-bootstrap` and `aws-deployment-framework-pipelines` are also considered a landing zone feature. The "dev" AWS Organization is exclusivly reserved for the landing zone development team. No end-user has access to the "dev" AWS Organization.

Reviewer: It would be great to clarify who these end-users are in this case. Can you add that?

> 2. Once the code under development is stable and underwent successful unit and basic integration tests, it is moved from the "dev" AWS Organization to the "int" AWS Organization. The process of propagating code form one AWS Organization to another is described here [Propagating Code Changes Between ADF Installations](#Propagating-Code-Changes-Between-ADF-Installations).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Once the code under development is stable and underwent successful unit and basic integration tests, it is moved from the "dev" AWS Organization to the "int" AWS Organization. The process of propagating code from one AWS Organization to another is described in the [Propagating Code Changes Between ADF Installations section](#Propagating-Code-Changes-Between-ADF-Installations).
```

> 3. The "int" AWS Organization is used for final integration testing and verification. The "dev" AWS Organization is exclusivly reserved for the landing zone development team. No end-user has access to the dev org.

Reviewer: Can you also explain the benefit of the integration AWS Organization?
What is the value of this additional step, what integration does it facilitate?

4. Once all tests passed successfully, the code is moved from the "int" AWS Organization to the "prod" AWS Organization.
5. Assuming that the propagation and the deploymemt in the "prod" AWS Organization was successful, the code is now fully deployed in the "prod" AWS Organization and is available to the end-users.

The benefits of such a setup is that an Enteprise can apply the same common `Software Development Lifecycle` to typical "one-off" landing zone services that are hard to test in a single-orgaization setup. It enables an Enterprises 'Cloud Center of Excellence' (landing zone team) a 

> controlled process to develop, test and validate changes to wide reaching mission-critical 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
controlled process to develop, test, and validate changes to wide reaching mission-critical 
```

services, including but not limited to:
- Service Control Policies changes.
- Identity Center and IAM based Access Management Configuration changes.

> - Deployment Framework changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- AWS Deployment Framework changes.
```

- AWS Organization changes; including OU structure.
- Control Tower and Account Provisioning configurations changes.
- Centralized security service configuration changes.
- Centralized cost management configuration changes.
- Centralized networking changes.

> The following sections are written in the context of this "".

Reviewer: this ""?

Reviewer 2: fixed.

## Propagating Code Changes Between ADF Installations 

> With multiple ADF configurations across multiple AWS organization there comes a new challenge to maintain repositories and its configurations across multiple environments. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With multiple ADF configurations across multiple AWS Organization there comes a new challenge to maintain repositories and its configurations across multiple environments. 
```

This applies to the following repositories: 
- aws-deployment-framework-bootstrap
- aws-deployment-framework-pipelines
- any other landing zone repository

As the requirements of the bootstrapped resources and adf configuration evolve they need to be updated over time, and these changes ideally propagated from one Installation to the next in a coordinated, controlled fashion.

> With an `Environment Branching` approach it's possible to build a 'hands-off' 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With an `Environment Branching` approach it is possible to build a 'hands-off' 
```

> automated mechanism to Promote from a "dev" AWS Organization installation to a "prod" AWS Organization installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
automated mechanism to promote from a "dev" AWS Organization environment to a "prod" AWS Organization environment.
```

> This means that for example merging code from the "dev" branch of a repository to the "int" branch of a repository, will trigger the deployment process in the "int" AWS Organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that, for example merging code from the "dev" branch of a repository to the "int" branch of a repository, it will trigger the deployment process in the "int" AWS Organization.
```

Implementing such an approach is out of scope of this guide and it heavily depends on the specific source code & CICD tool in use. 

## Best Practices for Multi-Organization ADF setups
If you want to run ADF in a multi-organization setup, there are various best practices that should be followed.
When following these recommendations, the content of the repository `aws-deployment-framework-bootstrap` and `aws-deployment-framework-pipelines` should be stage agnostic. 

> This means that you can copy and paste the content of any of those two repositories into any AWS Organization stage ("dev", "int", "prod") and ADF will behave exactly 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that you can copy and paste the content of any of those two repositories into any AWS Organization stage ("dev", "int", "prod") and ADF will behave exactly the same.
```
Or did you have something else/better in mind. The sentence stopped too early I think.

### 1. Create a dedicated adfconfig.yml Per AWS Organization
One challenge with synchronising the aws-deployment-framework-bootstrap repository
across AWS Organizations is that the contents of the `adfconfig.yml` configuration
file is typically tailored to the ADF installation. The can be solved by adding a 
custom adfconfig file for the given organization.

Adding a configuration file with the name pattern `adfconfig.{organization id}.yml`
in the root of the `aws-deployment-framework-bootstrap` repository will take
precedence over the default `adfconfig.yml` settings file for that organization.

For each AWS organization used with the ADF Framework setup an additional adfconfig

> file can be defined.

Reviewer: Can you show an example, with a test organization id here?
So readers would know if they got the right type of identifier that looks the same?

Maybe you could use the same `tree` like structure of demonstrating where the files are stored like what is used in the admin guide: https://github.com/awslabs/aws-deployment-framework/blob/68fad6de334e4d9467e77e63246290f9f9032abf/docs/admin-guide.md#bootstrapping-inheritance

### 2. Design Multi-Organization ADF Deployment Maps
The Deployment Maps for ADF exist in the codecommit repository
`aws-deployment-framwork-pipelines` within the deployment 
account. Some additional Multi-Org challenges exist when defining targets for Deployments. As a high-level goal, a deployment map should be setup in such a way, that it can be copied over from one ADF instance to another without breaking / requiring any change.

> The following considerations should be observed when creating Deployment Maps for an multi-organization ADF setup:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following considerations should be observed when creating deployment maps for a multi-organization ADF setup:
```

1. Create Organization-agnostic deployment maps
    - As a best-practice, deployment maps should be free of any hardocded AWS Account Ids for Deployment Map Targets, unless the deployment is destined for a single AWS Organization.

>     - Instead, target AWS accounts via `Account Names`, `Account Tags` or `OU Paths`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Instead, target AWS accounts via `Account Names`, `Account Tags` or `OU Paths`.
```

>     which ADF will then use to dynamically generate the respective Account IDs 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This will allow ADF to dynamically generate the respective AWS Account IDs 
```

>     Target List when updating the Pipelines. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    for the target list when updating the pipelines. 
```

2. Consider AWS service limits for AWS CodePipeline
    - In a large enteprise setup the number of targets in a "prod" AWS Organizations AWS CodePipeline
  stage may be much greater than in predecessing stages of the "int" and "prod" AWS Organizations.
    - Review the Codepipeline action limitations.

>     - ADF distributes targets across AWS CodePipeline stages within a AWS CodePipeline on a best efforts basis, however 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - ADF distributes targets across AWS CodePipeline stages within a deployment pipeline, spreading the accounts across multiple stages to workaround the AWS CodePipeline actions-per-stage limitation. 
```

>     deployments may need to be distributed across multiple AWS CodePipeline when upper limits are reached.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    However, deployments may need to be distributed across multiple deployment pipelines if they target hundreds of accounts in an AWS Organization.
```

Reviewer 2: Changed it according to your suggestion. I also slightly reordered the section.

    - The current limits are ([AWS CodePipeline Limits](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/latest/userguide/limits.html))
      - 1000 AWS CodePipeline per AWS Account per region
      - 500 Actions per AWS CodePipeline
      - 50 Actions per AWS CodePipeline Stage
    - This implies that a single ADF pipeline can target 500 AWS accounts max. At this point latest, the ADF pipeline needs to be manually rebalanced into smaller individual ADF pipelines.
3. Allow for empty deployment map targets
    - With the adfconfig setting `allow-empty-target` ([ADF Admin Guide](admin-guide.md)), ADF can be instructed to ignore any target that is not resolvable or empty (because no AWS Accounts exists in it). It is suggested to set this setting to `True`. Eventhough the OU structure and general setup across the different AWS Organization stages is usually identical, the number of created AWS Accounts might not. With this setting to `True`, temporary empty OUs are just ignored and do not lead to an error.

 4. The source branch for the application code may be different per AWS Organization
    - The above described custom `adfconfig` configuration allows a different default 

>   branch to be specified in the path `config.scm.default-scm-branch` per AWS Organization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  branch to be specified in the path `config.scm.default-scm-branch` per AWS Organization.
```

### 3. Make the AWS Organization Stage Context Available in Codepipeline Build jobs
ADF applications often contain environment / AWS Organization stage specific configuration files. 
In order to allow AWS Codebuild to select the proper configuration context for an application, the environment / AWS Organization stage context needs to be made available. 

> A simple pattern to solve this problem is the introduction of the SSM parameter `adf/org/stage` in  the buildspec file of the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A simple pattern to solve this problem is the introduction of the SSM parameter `adf/org/stage` in the buildspec file of the application.
```

The following snippet shows the header of such a `codebuild.yaml` file. 

> ```

Reviewer: Can you add the `yaml` keyword after these three backticks?
Plus add an empty line in front and after the code block?

Reviewer 2: done

env:
  parameter-store:
    ADF_ORG_STAGE: "/adf/org/stage"
[...]
```
This environment variable can then be used to drive decision/deployment logic
within any of the subsequent build commands/actions.

> Some scenarios which could require Org specific context:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Some scenarios which could require organization specific context include:
```

> - Deriving the default log level based on the org stage for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Deriving the default log level based on the organization stage for
```

a specific CDK application 
- Appending the Stage name to AWS resource names having a requirement to be 

> both deterministic as well as globally unique 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  both deterministic as well as globally unique 
```

(whilst being deployed into multiple organizatinos)
- Selection a config file from a config folder with the following files:
    - `config-dev.yaml`
    - `config-int.yaml`
    - `config-prod.yaml`

### 4. Customize the Base IAM Roles Per Organization
ADF Supports Bootstrapping Baseline Cloudformation Stacks to all accounts
when they first join an AWS Organization and centrally governing the subsequent 

> Lifecycle of those Stacks. [See Here](admin-guide.md#bootstrapping-accounts) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
lifecycle of those stacks. [More information on bootstrapping accounts can be found in the admin guide](admin-guide.md#bootstrapping-accounts).
```

> These Baseline Templates are typically used for Setting up Default IAM Roles and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These Baseline Templates are typically used for setting up the default IAM roles and
```

> Policies necessary for the foundations of an ADF Based Enteprise Landing Zone. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[olicies necessary for the foundations of an ADF-based Enterprise Landing Zone. 
```

In guidance with AWS Security Guidelines and `Least Privilege Access Principles`,

> it it recommended to reduce the scope of any IAM Policy to the minimum required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it is recommended to reduce the scope of any IAM Policy to the minimum required
```

Actions, Principals and Resource Scope necessary. 

> To customize the scope of which resources or Principals are permitted within the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To customize the scope of which resources or principals are permitted within the
```

> IAM Policies of the Baseline templates CFN Mapping fields can be utilized based 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IAM Policies of the baseline templates CFN Mapping fields can be utilized based 
```

on the `Org Stage` SSM Parameter. As shown below:

> ```

Reviewer: Can you add the `yaml` keyword directly after these three backticks?

Reviewer 2: done

Parameters:
  OrgStage:
    Type: "AWS::SSM::Parameter::Value<String>"
    Description: Org Stage
    Default: /adf/org/stage
# At the time this Stack is deployed, the FinOps Account ID SSM Parameter doesn't
# exist, so we derive it from mapping it to the org stage
Mappings:
  # Usage:!FindInMap [OrgStageBasedPropertyMap, !Ref OrgStage, FinOpsAccountId]
  OrgStageBasedPropertyMap:
    dev:
      FinOpsAccountId: 1234567891012 # Dev Org 
    int:
      FinOpsAccountId: 1234567891013 # Int Org
    prod:
      FinOpsAccountId: 1234567891014 # Prod Org

> ```

Reviewer: Can you add a blank line after this code block?

Reviewer 2: Done

> Can you add a blank line after this code block?

Done

In the above usage example you can see how the Cloudformation function FindInMap
`!FindInMap [OrgStageBasedPropertyMap, !Ref OrgStage, FinOpsAccountId]` can be

> utilized to dynamically reference a custom 'AccountId' within the Template,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
utilized to dynamically reference a custom 'AccountId' within the template,
```

> enabling the construction account specific granular Resource/Principal ARNS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
enabling the construction of account specific granular Resource and Principal ARNs.
```

depends on the specific source code and CI/CD tool in use.

## Best Practices for Multi-Organization ADF setups

If you want to run ADF in a multi-organization setup, there are various best
practices that should be followed. When following these recommendations, the
content of the repository `aws-deployment-framework-bootstrap` and
`aws-deployment-framework-pipelines` should be stage agnostic. This means that
you can copy and paste the content of any of those two repositories into any
AWS Organization stage ("dev", "int", "prod") and ADF will behave exactly the same.

### 1. Create a dedicated adfconfig.yml Per AWS Organization

One challenge with synchronizing the `aws-deployment-framework-bootstrap` repository
across AWS Organizations is that the contents of the `adfconfig.yml` configuration
file is typically tailored to the ADF installation. The can be solved by adding a
custom adfconfig file for the given organization.

Adding a configuration file with the name pattern `adfconfig.{organization id}.yml``
in the root of the`aws-deployment-framework-bootstrap` repository will take
precedence over the default `adfconfig.yml` settings file for that organization.

> For each AWS organization used with the ADF Framework setup an additional adfconfig
> file can be defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each AWS organization used in the ADF setup an additional adfconfig
file can be defined.
```

The following screenshot shows the ADF root directory of a multi-organization ADF
setup with three stages ("dev", "int", "prod"). Each AWS Organization has its own

> ADF config file with environment-specific values. d

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ADF config file with environment-specific values.
```

![adf-multi-org-root-directory-screenshot](images/aws-multi-org-adf-config-multi-organization.png)

## 2. Customize the ADF Config File Per AWS Organization

> Once a dedicated ADF config file per tenant is setup, it needs to be customized

Reviewer: This is the first time you talk about tenants, I'm don't think this is the right word here.
Do you mean environment (`dev`, `int`, `prod`)? Or ADF instance?

```suggestion
Once a dedicated ADF config file per environment is setup, it needs to be customized
```

for each AWS Organizations context. It is recommended to make use of the following
ADF configuration options in a multi-organization context:

```yaml
  scm:
    # This setting ensures, that the "prod" branch is selected as the source
    # branch for any ADF deployment pipeline.
    default-scm-branch: prod
    # This setting ensure that the AWS Account 123456789012 is selected as the
    # default AWS account to.
    default-scm-codecommit-account-id: "123456789012"
  org:
    # This setting will create the SSM parameter "/adf/org/stage" in the ADF
    # deployment AWS Account. This parameter then can be referenced as an
    # environment variable in application buildspec files to establish the
    # AWS organization context.
    stage: prod
  deployment-maps:
    # It is recommended to set this setting to "True". When this setting is set
    # to "True", temporary empty OUs are just ignored and do not lead to an error.
    allow-empty: "True"
```

The following sample ADF config file `adfconfig.o-a123456789.yml` shows a
complete example for a "prod" AWS organization.

```yaml

> # The following configuration is only loaded for int Organization:  o-a123456789

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# The following configuration is only loaded for prod Organization:  o-a123456789
```

  deployment-maps:
    allow-empty: "True" # Defaults to "False". Needs to be "True" or "False"
```

### 3. Design Multi-Organization ADF Deployment Maps

The Deployment Maps for ADF exist in the AWS CodeCommit repository
`aws-deployment-framework-pipelines` within the deployment
account. Some additional multi-organization challenges exist when defining
targets for deployments. As a high-level goal, a deployment map should be setup
in such a way, that it can be copied over from one ADF instance to another without
breaking / requiring any change.

The following considerations should be observed when creating deployment maps for
a multi-organization ADF setup:

1. Create Organization-agnostic deployment maps
    - As a best-practice, deployment maps should be free of any hard-coded AWS
      Account IDs for deployment map targets, unless the deployment is destined
      for a single AWS Organization only.
    - Instead, target AWS Accounts via `Account Names`, `Account Tags` or `OU Paths`.
      This will allow ADF to dynamically generate the respective AWS Account IDs
      for the target list when updating the pipelines.
2. Consider AWS service limits for AWS CodePipeline

>     - Review the AWS CodePipeline action limitations. The current limits are d
>       ([AWS CodePipeline Limits](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/latest/userguide/limits.html))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Review the AWS CodePipeline action limitations. [AWS CodePipeline
      Limits](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/latest/userguide/limits.html))
      are:
```

      - 1000 AWS CodePipeline per AWS Account per region
      - 500 Actions per AWS CodePipeline
      - 50 Actions per AWS CodePipeline Stage
    - Those limits imply that a single ADF pipeline can target 500 AWS Accounts
      max. This may require you to manually balance the targets across multiple
      deployment pipelines.
    - ADF distributes targets across AWS CodePipeline stages within a deployment
      pipeline, spreading the accounts across multiple stages to workaround the
      AWS CodePipeline actions-per-stage limitation. Deployments may need to be
      manually distributed across multiple deployment pipelines if they target
      hundreds of accounts in an AWS Organization.
    - In a large enterprise setup, the number of targets in a "prod"
      AWS Organization for an AWS CodePipeline stage may be much larger than its
      preceding stages in the "dev" and "int" AWS Organizations.

> 3. Allow for empty deployment map targets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Allow empty deployment map targets
```

      ADF can be instructed to ignore any target that is not resolvable or empty
      (because no AWS Accounts exists in it). It is suggested to set this setting
      to `True`. Even though the OU structure and general setup across the different
      AWS Organization stages is usually identical, the number of created
      AWS Accounts might not be. When this setting is set to `True`, temporary
      empty OUs are just ignored and do not lead to an error.
4. The source branch for the application code may be different per AWS Organization
    - The above described custom `adfconfig` configuration allows a different
      default branch to be specified in the path `config.scm.default-scm-branch`
      per AWS Organization.

### 4. Make AWS Organization Stage Context Available in AWS CodePipeline Build jobs

ADF applications often contain environment / AWS Organization stage specific
configuration files. In order to allow AWS CodeBuild to select the proper
configuration context for an application, the environment / AWS Organization stage
context needs to be made available. A simple pattern to solve this problem is the

> introduction of the SSM parameter `adf/org/stage` in the buildspec file of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
introduction of the SSM parameter `/adf/org/stage` in the buildspec file of the
```

application. This SSM parameter will be auto-created by ADF. The following snippet
shows the header of such a `codebuild.yaml` file.

```yaml
env:
  parameter-store:
    ADF_ORG_STAGE: "/adf/org/stage"

> [...]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# [...]
```

ADF Supports Bootstrapping Baseline CloudFormation Stacks to all AWS Accounts
when they first join an AWS Organization and centrally governing the subsequent
lifecycle of those stacks. [More information on bootstrapping accounts can be
found in the admin guide](admin-guide.md#bootstrapping-accounts).

These Baseline Templates are typically used for setting up the default IAM
roles and Policies necessary for the foundations of an ADF Based Enterprise
Landing Zone.

In guidance with AWS Security Guidelines and `Least Privilege Access Principles`,
it is recommended to reduce the scope of any IAM Policy to the minimum required
Actions, Principals and Resource Scope necessary.

To customize the scope of which resources or principals are permitted within the
IAM Policies of the baseline templates CFN Mapping fields can be utilized based
on the `Org Stage` SSM Parameter. As shown below:

```yaml
Parameters:
  OrgStage:
    Type: "AWS::SSM::Parameter::Value<String>"
    Description: Org Stage
    Default: /adf/org/stage
# At the time this Stack is deployed, the FinOps Account ID SSM Parameter doesn't
# exist, so we derive it from mapping it to the org stage
Mappings:

>   # Usage:!FindInMap [OrgStageBasedPropertyMap, !Ref OrgStage, FinOpsAccountId]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Usage: !FindInMap [OrgStageBasedPropertyMap, !Ref OrgStage, FinOpsAccountId]
```

  OrgStageBasedPropertyMap:

>     dev:
>       FinOpsAccountId: 1234567891012 # Dev Org
>     int:
>       FinOpsAccountId: 1234567891013 # Int Org
>     prod:
>       FinOpsAccountId: 1234567891014 # Prod Org

Reviewer: In accordance with our (Contributing Guide](https://github.com/awslabs/aws-deployment-framework/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#use-of-examples) I suggest changing these to account ids in the example list of account IDs, so our code scanners don't flag this later on:

```suggestion
    dev:
      FinOpsAccountId: 111111111111 # Dev Org
    int:
      FinOpsAccountId: 222222222222 # Int Org
    prod:
      FinOpsAccountId: 333333333333 # Prod Org
```
